(0)  Read the README's.  There's a lot of useful info buried in there...

(1) If you want to play on hardware decoders don't build variable
bit-rate video streams.  If you intend to use software players they're
a *much* better bet. HOWEVER: The variable bit-rate support in "mplex"
is new so there could be bugs. Similarly, modifications to mpeg2enc
may also have broken that side of things. They're next on the "get
fixed" list. Let us know if/when you encounter problems.

	 Buffer sizes.  For hardware players experimentation is the order
	 of the day.  My DXR2 seems to use a nice big > 100K buffer for
	 VCD as well as DVD streams and be happy too read MPEG-1 streams
	 *much* faster than the official VCD 170K/sec.  300K seems fine.
	 
	 Generally, you'll probably need a buffer size of around 1/4
	 data-rate to avoid buffer underflows (signalled as "time out"'s
	 by mplex).
	 
(2)  If you want to play MPEG-1 stuff on hardware decoders stick to
     44.1 Stereo layer-2 audio.   

(3)  Use the noise filters when MPEG compressing broadcast material
     unless it is *very* good or you like Artefacts. 

(4) If you want to compress MPEG-2: feel free to try it, however, its
	not tested.  Fully tested version coming next...

(5) Storing MPEG's.  If you record the data as XA mode 2 tracks you
	can fit appreciably more on a CD (at the expense of error
	correction/detection).  You need to slightly hack mkvcdfs or vcdimager
	to stop them prepending/appending lots of null sectors if you use them
	to do this.  I'll try to incorporate suitable patches through their
	developers before you read this!
 
(6) For encoding a typical (45 minute running time) show or 90 odd
minute movie from an analog broadcast I have found a CBR bit-rate of
1900 to be ideal.  The resulting files are around 700M for 45 minutes
which fits nicely as a raw XA MODE2 data track on a CD-R.  (I use
cdrdao to write such CD's and a hacked version of vcdread - soon to be
included to extract them).

Update: I've now got a digital cable provider.  Digital TV sources
(even when captured via an analog interface) give *much* better
results.  There doesn't seem much point going above 1400 or 1500Kbps.
Often even VCD 1152 works fine.  However, IMHO that rate is silly 'cos
it means every movie still needs two CD's but the second is mostly
empty.  Might as well crank the rate (and quality) up until you come
in at just under 2 CD's.

On modern 400Mhz+ CPU's there is *no point* running with a motion
compensation setting less than 16.  The speed gains aren't huge as
other parts of the encoder take a significant fraction of the
time. See the mpeg2enc README.

(7) For transcoding existing MPEG-2 streams a still lower data-rate
than for broadcast will give good results. Standard VCD 1152 Kbps
typically works just fine.  The difference is in the Signal/Noise
ratio of the original.  The noise in the analog stuff makes it much
harder to compress.




	 
