Q : I want to encode and burn my data to VCD or eXtended VCD format : how to
calculate the optimal - that is the maximal - encoding image bitrate for
mpeg2enc ?

A1 : maximal maximuum

- Usually, the maximal encoding speed acceptable by DVD player is such
that the total video flux is 2 times the standard VCD video bitrate.

- Standard VCD bitrate is 1152kBits/s for image and 224kBits/s for sound,
total video bitrate = 1152+224=1376kBits/s (with kBits=1000Bits, not
1024Bits)

- Even with larger image bitrate, sound bitrate doesn't change.

- So maximal image bitrate is such that (image+224)=2*1376. Maximal image
bitrate is 2528kBits/s

A2 : Storage capacity of a CD-R or CD-RW VCD are burn in a special mode
where sectors have not the same size as data sectors. Therefore, the
capacity (650Mo, 700Mo) is not relevant here. What is relevant is the number
of blocks of the media. You get this information by issuing (for example):
cdrecord -atip -dev=?,?,?<your device obtained by cdrecord -scanbus>

The required information is the "ATIP start of lead out". Typically,
74min/650Mo CD show 336000 blocks. Let us note that 336000 blocks of data
(data use 2048 bytes per block) enables to store 336000*2048=656Mo. But for
VCD, it is much more since we store 2300bytes of VCD data per block => VCD
capacity is 737Mo.

A3 : Space needed on media

Given the length of the video, we can now calculate the required space on
media as a function of the image bitrate. It roughly takes 1125 blocks for
the VCD filesystem, 100 blocks for mpg filesystem and the rest is the data
to be stored, that is Video_Bitrate(in kBits/s)*duration(in s)/8(from bit to
byte)/2300(nb of VCD data byte stored per block). So, the maximal image
encoding bitrate is :
Video_bitrate(kBits/s)=(available_blocks-1125-100)*8*2300/duration(s)/1000.
As Video=Image+Audio with Audio=224kBits/s
Image_bitrate(kBits/s)=(available_blocks-1125-100)*8*2300/duration(s)/1000-224

Typically, 45mn of data may be encoded using an Image bitrate of 2057kBit/s
on a 650Mo CD => we take 2050kBits/s



