.TH "img2mpg" "1" "1 January 2003" "Gilles CAULIER" "MJPEG tools manual"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
img2mpg \- MPEG portfolio image multiplexer
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
img2mpg [\fIoptions\fP] \fB\-o\fR <\fIoutput MPEG file\fP> \fB\-i\fR <\fIinput image files\fP>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
The 'img2mpg' bash script convert some images on MPEG sequences with a specific 
duration and merge all images on an single MPEG file. It use the 'MjpegTools' and 
'ImageMagick' packages.
.LP 
You can use this for to build some XVCD/SVCD/VCD portfolios for your home DVD player. Use 'vcdimager' for create this...

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

\fB\-v\fR <\fInum\fP>                : verbose level [0:none=default, 1:infos+warnings, 2:debug].

\fB\-t\fR <\fInum\fP>                : enable transition between images with the speed [1=slow, 2, 4, 5, 10, 20=fast].

\fB\-f\fR <\fIVideo format\fP>       : video format  [XVCD=default, SVCD, VCD].

\fB\-n\fR <\fIVideo type\fP>         : video type    [PAL=default, NTSC, SECAM].

\fB\-b\fR <\fIbackground file\fP>    : 768x576 pixels background image file name [black color = default].

\fB\-c\fR <\fIRGB color\fP>          : hex RGB color for background image (ex: AA001F).

\fB\-d\fR <\fInum\fP>                : duration for each image in MPEG file [10s = default, 1s = mini].

\fB\-a\fR <\fIMPEG audio file\fP>    : MP2 audio file to merge with the video sequence.

\fB\-w\fR <\fIwav audio file\fP>     : WAV audio file to convert in MPEG and to merge with the video sequence.

\fB\-o\fR <\fIoutput MPEG file\fP>   : the ouput MPEG file name [temporary file name = default].

\fB\-i\fR <\fIinput images files\fP> : images files name to merge in MPEG.

\fB\-h | \-\-help\fR                           : output help information and exit.


.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
#./img2mpg \-f SVCD \-d 15 \-w Music.wav \-o MyPortfolio.mpg \-i 01.jpg 02.jpg 03.jpg 04.jpg

Build PAL (default) SVCD MPEG file with the 'Music.wav' sound file and this image files sequence :

01.jpg
02.jpg
03.jpg
04.jpg

For each image on the portfolio, the screen show duration is 15 seconds. The output file is 'MyPortfolio.mpg'.
There isn't transition between images.
.LP 
#./img2mpg \-n NTSC \-t 2 \-o MyPortfolio.mpg \-i *.png

Build XVCD (default) NTSC MPEG file with a transition between image (speed 2) and all local PNG images files.
The image files sequence use the local filesystem sort.
.LP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
This man page was written by Gilles CAULIER.
.br 
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the author :
  \fIcaulier.gilles@free.fr\fP

The main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

For more info, see our website at
  \fIhttp://mjpeg.sourceforge.net\fP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
ImageMagick(1), mjpegtools(1), vcdimager(1)
