.TH "lav2wav" "1" "2 June 2001" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"

.SH "NAME"
lav2wav \- Extract the audio out of MJPEG container files to stdout

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B lav2wav
.RB [ \-s
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-v
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-I ]
.IR filename " ..."

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBlav2wav\fP can be used to extract the audio to stdout.
This output goes to stdout and can be saved as a wav file, or piped to an 
other sound processing tool, that is able to handle wave. 
This can be mp2enc and toolame for mpeg layer 2 audio, 
or for example lame for mpeg layer 3 audio. 

As input sources you can use serveral files, mixing up with edit list files. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
\fBlav2wav\fP accepts the following options:

.TP 5
.BI \-s " num"
Start extracting at video frame (num)
.TP 5
.BI \-c " num"
Extract (num) frames of audio
.TP 5
.BI \-v " num"
Verbosity level (0, 1 or 2)
.TP 5
.BI \-I 
Ignore unsupported bitrates/bits per sample

.SH BUGS
The "WAV" file format (technically: RIFF) is really very much less
than ideal for a tool intended to be used in pipelines as lav2wav is.
The Problem is that the header includes a field specifying the length
of the file.  This can't be filled in except by seeking back to the
begining and over-writing.  If the output is unseek-able (e.g. pipe
lav2wav simply writes a large length into the header and leaves it at
that).  Most tools like sox(1) or mp2enc(1) either ignore the length
field anyway or only give a warning.

.SH "AUTHOR"
This man page was written by Bernhard Praschinger.
.br
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.TP
For more info, see our website at
.I http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR mp2enc (1),
.BR sox(1)
