.TH "lav2divx" "1" "2001 December 19" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
lav2divx \- build a .AVI file based on lavtools\-compatible input.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
lav2divx [\fIoptions\fP] \-o [output AVI] [input files...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
This utility reads lavtools\-compatible files and uses them to generate a .avi file using avifile.  
.LP 
Note that you must have avifile available in order to use this utility.  If building from a CVS snapshot or copy, this will be detected at build time.
.LP 
The input files may be any combination of .avi, .mov or edit\-list files so long as they are all lavtools\-readable (e.g. if in avi or mov format, they must be MJPEG encoded).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-o\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-outputfile\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
.br 
\fBMandatory</fR> (except for \-\-help, \-V).  The resulting encoded avi file is written to \fIfilename\fP.
.TP 
\fB\-b\fR <\fIkbps\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-divxbitrate\fR <\fIkbps\fP>
.br 
Specifies the output \fIvideo\fR bitrate (kilobits per second). Default is 1800.
.TP 
\fB\-a\fR <\fIkbps\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-mp3bitrate\fR <\fIkbps\fP>
.br 
Specifies the output \fIaudio\fR bitrate (kilobits per second). Default is 56 for mono audio and 128 for stereo.
.TP 
\fB\-e\fR <\fIframes\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-endframe\fR <\fIframes\fP>
.br 
Encode only \fIframes\fP frames. Default is to encode all frames present in video on stdin (extra audio, if available, is ignored).
.TP 
\fB\-c\fR <\fIwidth\fP>x<\fIheight\fP>+<\fIleft\fP>+<\fItop\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-crop\fR <\fIwidth\fP>x<\fIheight\fP>+<\fIleft\fP>+<\fItop\fP>
.br 
Include only the specified rectangle in the encoded output.  Default is no cropping, entire frame is encoded.
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR <\fInum\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-droplsb\fR <\fInum\fP>
.br 
Drop the \fInum\fR least significant bits of each frame (as a primitive noise control technique; you might want to look at yuvdenoise for better results).  Default 0.
.TP 
\fB\-n\fR <\fInum\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-noise\fR <\fInum\fP>
.br 
Use a very simple noise filter.  You should probably use yuvdenoise instead.
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR
.TP 
\fB\-\-version\fR
.br 
Output version and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-s\fR <\fIrate\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-forcedaudiorate\fR <\fIrate\fP>
.br 
Overrides audio rate (if audio is present).  Should only be used if rate is not correct in wav or input lav file.  (This option may disappear, I can no longer find any cases where it is needed.)
.TP 
\fB\-g\fR
.TP 
\fB\-\-guess\fR
.br 
Attempt to guess the argument to use for \-c.  This looks at the first 100 hundred frames and attempts to determine where the transition from a black border to active content occurs.  It does not always work (that's why it's a guess!) but can help narrow the process down some.  This is useful as an invariant border can usually be discarded to increase the available bandwidth for the active portion of the frame.  When using this option, the utility exits after the first 100 frames.
.TP 
\fB\-k\fR <\fInum\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-keyframes\fR <\fInum\fP>
.br 
Sets the keyframes attribute of the video encoder.  Not all avifile encoders use this attribute, but when an encoder does, the attribute specifies the number of frames between keyframes.  The default depends on the codec being used.
.TP 
\fB\-C\fR <\fInum\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-crispness\fR <\fInum\fP>
.br 
Sets the crispness attribute of the video encoder.  Not all avifile encoders use this attribute.  When it is used, it affects how edges are detected and encoded.  I have found that higher values may cause increased bandwidth usage with some codecs.  Default 50.
.TP 
\fB\-E\fR <\fIfourcc\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-encoder\fR <\fIfourcc\fP>
.br 
Specifies which video encoder to use.  You must specify the encoder using the "fourcc" of the codec.  The default is "DIV3". Common ones include:
.br 
.IP 
MJPG \- MJPEG (though why you'd use this utility for this is a bit of a mystery)
.IP 
DIV3 \- Divx ;\-) low motion
.IP 
DIV4 \- Divx ;\-) fast motion
.IP 
DIV5 \- Divx ;\-) low motion variable keyframe
.IP 
DIV6 \- Divx ;\-) fast motion variable keyframe
.IP 
There are many others.  Consult your version of avifile to see which ones might be available for you.
.TP 
\fB\-m\fR
.TP 
\fB\-\-mono\fR
.br 
Performs a rather naive combination of stereo input audio to monoaural.
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR <\fIlevel\fP>
.TP 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR <\fIlevel\fP>
.br 
Specifies the level of verbosity on output.  All output occurs to stderr. 2 shows progress and all logging, 1 shows informative output and 0 shows only important messages.
.TP 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.br 
Display a brief summary of help and exit.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
lav2divx \-o output.avi \-b 600 \-E DIV5 input.eli input.avi input.mov
.SH "BUGS"
.LP 
.TP 
No checking or handling of large output avi files is performed (i.e. output files larger than 2 GiB may break on your installation depending on a number of installation\-specific parameters).
.TP 
Interlaced video isn't handled well.
.TP 
<insert general pithy comment about additional hidden bugs remaining here>
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Shawn Sulma <lav2divx@athos.cx>
.br
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
.br
    \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP
.br
.br
For more info, see our website at
.br
    \fIhttp://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
yuv2divx(1), lav2yuv(1), divxdec(1), lav2wav(1)
