.TH "lavrec" "1" "V 1.4" "Bernhard Praschinger" "description"
.SH "NAME"
lavtrans \- Convert MJPEG videos to other MJPEG video formats
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
lavtrans \-o <outputfile> \-f [aqiw] filenames [<\-i num>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBlavtrans\fP can be used to convert the recorded videos from MJPEG
one "container" format  to another. It can also be used to split
the streams, or do destructive edits.

Like all the other \fBmjpegtools\fP(1) lavtrans can also accept an
edit list file in place of actual video files. This allows it to be
used to construct a stand-alone copy of the editted video sequence
described in the editlist.

Note that lavtrans can only change the container type of MJPEG video,
no its format.  As such it is not possible to use it combine streams of
different format.

.SH "OPTIONS"
\fBlavtrans\fP accepts the following options:

.TP 5
.B \-f [aqmiw]
Specifies the output format that should be saved.
  a \- output to AVI file
  q \- output to Qicktime file
  m \- output to movtar file
  i \- output single JPEG images,
  w \- output WAV file (sound only!)
.TP 5
.B \-i num
Convert a single frame to a JPEG file.
.TP 5
.B \-o outputfile
Specifies the name of the output file
If you want as output single JPEG images the output filestring must be a valid format string
.TP 5
.B filenames
Multiple filenames as input are acceped, also mixing of editlistfiles and other in video files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR lavplay (1)
.SH "CONTACT"
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

For more info, see our website at \fIhttp://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/
