.TH "mp2enc" "1" "2 June 2001" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"

.SH "NAME"
.LP 
.br 
mp2enc \- Simple MPEG-2 layer-II audio encoder
.br 

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B mp2enc
.RB [ -v
.IR num ]
.RB [ -b
.IR bitrate_kbps ]
.RB [ -r
.IR output_sampling_rate_hz ]
.RB [ -s
]
.RB [ -m
]
.RB [ -V
]
.RB [ -? ]
.BI -o \ output_filename

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Mp2enc is a simple MPEG layer-II audio encoder.  It is actually a very
mildly warmed over version of the MPEG Software Simulation Group's
reference encoder.  It accepts a WAV file or stream on stdin and
ouputs an a layer-II elementary audio stream.  It is included in the
\fBmjpegtools\fP(1) primarily for reasons of completeness and because it
is able to perform sampling rate conversion.
.PP
Those seeking a faster (and probably higher quality) encoder are
recommended to use \fBtoolame\fP(1) which can be obtained from:
.IP
\fIhttp://members.dingoblue.net.au/~mikecheng\fP


.SH "GENERAL FUNCTION LETTERS"
.TP
.BI -o \ output_filename
Specifies the name for the output file.

An integer format code (e.g. %d) in the name is replaced the number of
the file generated (see printf(3)).
.TP
.BI -v \ num
Set verbosity level to num.  0 = warnings and errors only, 1 = information as well, 2=really verbose.
.B -?
Display a synopsis of the command syntax.
.br
.SH "FUNCTION LETTERS CONTROLLING OUTPUT STREAM STRUCTURE"
.TP
.BI -b \ bitrate

This sets the bit-rate of the output stream i kBit/sec.  Typical
values might be 224kbps for good-quality audio suitable for capturing
Dolby pro-logic signals.  A rate of 192kbps or 128kbps is reasonable
for low quality audio (e.g. mono TV audio).  Really high compression
is, of course, better achieved using MPEG layer III "MP3" audio
encoding or AAC.

.TP
.BI -r \ sampling_rate
Sets the audio sampling rate of the reconstructed output signal in Hz.
Legal values are 32000, 44100 and 48000Hz.   mp2enc will automatically
sample-rate convert the input signal if necessary.

.TP
.BI -s
Force stereo output.  A mono input signal is channel doubled before
encoding to make it stereo.  This is useful for many MPEG players
which simply can't handle a non-stero signal.
.TP
.BI -m
Force mono output.  A stereo input signal is down-mixed before encoding.
Useful if you've captured a mono signal in stereo and your player can
handle mono MPEG.
.TP
.BI -V
Force VCD comaptible output. Same as -b 224 -r 44100 -s.
.TP
.BI -o outputpathname
The name of the output file to generate.  If '-' is given as the pathname output is written to standard output.
.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Andrew Stevens.
.br
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.TP
For more info, see our website at
.I http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mpeg2enc "(1), " mp2enc "(1), " lavrec "(1), " lavplay "(1), "
.BR lav2yuv "(1), " lav2wav "(1), " yuvscaler "(1)"
