.TH "mpeg2enc" "1" "25 Aug 2002" "MJPEG Tools Team" "MJPEG tools manual"

.SH "NAME"
mpeg2enc \- MPEG 1/2 encoder
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B mpeg2enc
.RB [ -v | --verbose
.IR num ]
.RB [ -M | --multithread
.IR num_CPU ]
.RB [ -f | --format
.IR mpeg_profile ]
.RB [ -b | --video-bitrate
.IR bitrate_kbps ]
.RB [ -V | --video-buffer
.IR video_buf_size_kB ]
.RB [ -T | --target-still-size
.IR still_size_kB ] 
.RB [ -q | --quantisation
.IR quantization ]
.RB [ -r | --motion-search-radius
.IR motion_search_radius]
.RB [ -Q | --quantisation-reduction\ 0.0 - 4.0 ]
.RB [ -p | --3-2-pulldown ]
.RB [ -I | --interlace-mode\ 0..2]
.RB [ -s | --sequence-header-every-gop ]
.RB [ -g | --min-gop-size
.IR min_gop_size ]
.RB [ -G | --max-gop-size
.IR max_gop_size ]
.RB [ -P | --force-b-b-p ]
.RB [ -n | --video-norm \ n | p | s ]
.RB [ -F | --frame-rate
.IR frame_rate_code ]
.RB [ -a | --aspect\ aspect_ratio_code ]
.RB [ -z | --playback-field-order\ b|t]
.RB [ -4 | --reduction-4x4\ 1..4 ]
.RB [ -2 | --reduction-2x2\ 1..4 ]
.RB [ -S | --sequence-length
.IR size_MB ]
.RB [ -B | --nonvideo-bitrate
.IR bitrate_kbps ]
.RB [ -N | --reduce-hf 0.0 .. 2.0 ]
.RB [ -D | --intra_dc_prec 8 .. 11 ]
.RB [ -H | --keep-hf ]
.RB [ -d | --no-dummy-svcd-SOF]
.RB [ -C | --correct-svcd-hds]
.RB [ --hack-dxr2-bug]
.RB [ --no-constraints]
.RB [ -K | --custom-quant-matrices kvcd|tmpgenc|default|hi-res|file=inputfile|help
.RB [ -E | --unit-coeff-elim -100 ... 100 ]
.RB [ -R | -b-per-refframe 0|1|2 ]
.RB [ -? | --help ]
.BI -o \ output_filename
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
mpeg2enc is heavily enhanced derivative of the MPEG Software
Simulation Group's MPEG-2 reference encoder.  It accepts streams in a
simple planar YUV format "YUV4MPEG" produced by the \fBlav2yuv\fP and
related filters (e.g. \fByuvscaler\fP(1)) from the \fBmjpegtools\fP(1)
package.  A output plug-in to the \fBmpeg2dec\fP(1) MPEG decoder is
available to permit its use in transcoding applications. The encoder
currently fully supports the generation of elementary MPEG-1,
progressive and interlaced frame MPEG-2 streams.  Field encoded MPEG-2
is also possible but is not currently maintained or supported.

For most purposes this elementary stream output will need to be
multiplexed with one or more audio streams into a program/systems stream
using the
.BR mplex (1)
tool.

Note that although this manual page aims to explain how mpeg2enc can
be used effectively it is not intended as an introduction to MPEG-1/2
video which is a fairly complex topic in its own right.  The MPEG
video format is a somewhat baroque standard with many many options,
not all of which necessarily easy to explain or even particular useful
in the context of a software encoder.

Much useful practical information for novices can be found in the
mjpeg-HOWTO document that should have been installed with \fBmjpegtools\fP(1)
package.  Further information and useful supporting software can be found
on the mjpegtools web-site:
.br
.IP
\fBhttp://mjpeg.sourceforge.net\fP

.SH "SELECTING THE MPEG PROFILE"
.PP

Set the MPEG profile to use.  The MPEG standards support a vast number
of options.  In practice, different applications of the MPEG format
place additional constraints of the form the MPEG stream.  Setting
this flag selects the kind of stream to produce.

.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 0
	-	Generic MPEG1.
.PP
	A basic MPEG-1 profile that lets most parameters
	be adjusted for particular applications using the other flags.
	Typical	applications would be to produce a variable bit-rate MPEG-1
	stream with big buffers and a high data-rate software playback
	on a computer.
.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 1 
	-	Standard VCD.
.PP
An MPEG1 profile exactly to the VCD2.0 specification.
Flag settings that would result in a non-standard
stream structure are simply ignored.

.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 2 
	-	User VCD.
.PP
As for profile 2 but bit-rate and video buffer size can
be set to non-standard values. Frame size may also be non-standard.
Bit-rate and buffer sizes default to those for standard VCD.
.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 3
	-	Generic MPEG2.
.PP

A basic MPEG-2 profile that lets most parameters be adjusted for
particular applications using the other flags.  Typical applications
would be to produce a MPEG-2 stream with big buffers and long GOP's
for software playback on a computer.

.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 4
	-	Standard SVCD.
.PP
An MPEG-2 profile exactly to the SVCD2.0
specification. Flag settings that would result in a
non-standard stream structure are simply ignored.
.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 5
	-	Non-standard SVCD.
.PP
As for profile 4 but bit-rate, video
buffer size, GOP sizes and structure can be set to
non-standard values. Frame size may also be non-standard.
Bit-rate and buffer sizes default to those for standard SVCD.
.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 6
	-	VCD Stills sequence.
.PP
Encodes the special style of MPEG stream
used for still images on VCDs.  To use this profile you must
set the target size you wish to compress the images to using the
-T flag.   Reasonable values are around 35KB for standard resolution
stills (352 wide) and 120KB for high resolution stills (704 wide).
.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 7
	-	SVCD Stills sequence.
.PP
Encodes the special style of MPEG stream
used for still images on SVCDs.  Both standard (480 wide) and high
resolution (704 wide) images are supported. As with VCD stills you
select how big each compressed still should be using the -T flag.
.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 8
	-	DVD MPEG-2 for 'dvdauthor'
.PP
This version adds special dummy navigation packets into the output stream
that the dvdauthor tool fills in to make a proper .VOB for authoring.
Bit-rate defaults to 7500kbps, buffer sizes to the maximum
permitted by the DVD specification.
.PP
.BR -f|--format \ 9
	-	DVD MPEG-2. 
.PP
Just a very basic implementation. Useful with DXR2 board and similar
hardware that can decode MPEG-2 only if it is presented in a DVD like
form.  Bit-rate defaults to 7500kbps, buffer sizes to the maximum
permitted by the DVD specification.
.SH "GENERAL FUNCTION LETTERS"
.PP
.BR -v|--verbose \ num
.PP
Set verbosity level to num.  0 = warnings and errors only, 1 =
information as well, 2=really verbose.
.PP
.BR -K|--custom-quant-matrices
\fBkvcd\fP | \fBtmpgenc\fP | \fBdefault\fP | \fBhi-res\fP | \fBfile=\fPinputfile | \fBhelp\fP
.PP
Specify which quantization matrices to use instead of the defaults
(which can be specified by using "-K default").   Using "-K hi-res" is
identical to using the -H option. The value kvcd uses the Kvcd.Net
matrices from http://www.kvcd.net/; the value tmpgenc invokes the
TMPGEnc matrices from http://www.tmpgenc.net/e_main.html. On average
(this depends on the source material), the tmpgenc tables reduce
the average bitrate by about 10% and the kvcd tables reduce bitrate
by about 16% (compared to the default tables).
.PP
.BR [ -E | --unit-coeff-elim -100 ... 100 ]
.PP
Specify when a special 'unit coefficient elimination' algorithm should
be applied to the encoded picture blocks.  Basically, this procedure
forces blocks of a type that don't carry much information but are
expensive to encode to be simply skipped.  The larger the number the
more potentially visible this skipping is likely to be but the more
compression is boosted.  A negative value means that all coefficients
are zeroed, positive means only texture but not base intensity
coefficients are zeroed.  Values of around 10 or -10 seem to work well
with high quality source material. For noisier material it might be
worth trying 20 or -20.  
.PP Note: if B frames are being encoded this only applies to B frames.
.BR [ -R | -b-per-refframe 0|1|2 ]
Specify how many bi-directionally (B type) difference-encoded frames
should be encoded between reference (I or P) frames.  Experts differ
on how much using B frames improves compression.  For noisy material
they tend to be less useful.  Encoding is significantly faster and
uses less memory if no B frames are encoded and compression is rarely
more than marginally worse...
.PP
.BR -?|--help
.PP
Display a synopsis of the command syntax.
.SH "FUNCTION LETTERS ADJUSTING THE SELECTED PROFILE"

N.b. If the profile you have selected sets particular values
for these parameters it will over-ride these adjustment flags.
In particular, there is almost \fInothing\fP that can be 
adjusted for the standard VCD and SVCD profiles.

.PP
.BR -b|--video-bitrate \ num 
.PP
The bit-rate of the output video stream in k Bits/sec.  The default is
exactly the bit-rate required for VCD streams. Selecting one of the
non-generic formats sets a default bit-rate that makes sense for the
selected format. If variable bit-rate mode has been selected (see the
-q option) this is the
.I maximum
bit-rate of the stream.
.PP
.BR -V|--video-buffer \ num
.PP
The maximum video buffer usage required to decode the stream in
KBytes.  The default is 46KB the (tiny) size specified for VCD.  The
size to use for SVCD is the (more reasonable) 230KB.  If you are
encoding for a half-decent software decoder it makes sense to push
this up to 500K or more.
.PP
.BR -T|--target-still-size \ num
Set the target size for (S)VCD still images in KB.
.PP
.BR -s|--sequence-header-every-gop
.PP
This flag forces the encoder to generate a "sequence header" at the start
of every group-of-pictures.  This is needed by some player hardware to
support fast forward/rewind/random access functions but is a waste of bits
otherwise.

.PP
.BR -d|--no-dummy-svcd-SOF
.PP
The SVCD MPEG-2 profile demands that special "Scan OFfset" which are
(in effect) pointers to the place on the final SVCD disk where the
video for 0.5 and around 5-10 seconds behind and ahead in the stream
is located.  The intended use of this information is to support"Fast
forward/Rewind" functions.  Unfortunately, at the time mpeg2enc
encodes the video it doesn't know where the video is going to finally
end up.  So special dummy "Scan OFfset" values are written which are
intended to be filled in during the creation of the SVCD
image. Currently the GNU vcdimager tool handles this task.  However,
in some circumstances the dummy offsets can cause problems.   This
flags stops mpeg2enc generating them.
.PP
.BR --correct-svcd-hds
.PP
In the official SVCD standards the field in the MPEG-2 header
information that passes on the encoders "recommended" horizontal
resolution to decode the stream to is supposed to take the values 540
(for 4:3 sequences) or 720 (for 16:9 sequences).  In practice many
players don't work unless the value is 480. This flag, forces mpeg2enc
to follow the official standard. It is worth trying if 16:9 sequences
play at 4:3 aspect ratio.
.PP
.BR --hack-dxr2-bug
.PP
This flag, as its name suggests, works around what appears to be a bug
in MPEG-2 decoding in the firmware of the DXR2 board. Useful for
encoding DVD-like streams for playback using a DXR2.
.PP
.BR --no-constraints
.PP
This flag deactivates all constraints for the maximum video samplerate or video resolution. Its purpose is to allow the encoding of unusual resolutions of MPEG-video (e.g. 2200 x 576, 160 degrees FOV VR-theatre MPEG movies), but should be used with care: It can possible circumvent a number of other security checks, and untested settings can cause mpeg2enc to crash in this mode. 
.PP
.BR -z|--playback-field-order b|t
.PP
This flag forces the playback field order to bottom or top first. And sets
which field is shown first on a TV. You only need that option when you
notice some weird "juddering" effects when playing back the stream on a TV.
You should not need that option because it would point to a problem in the
capturing/encoding process where the order in time of the two fields in each
frame can get mislabeled somehow. Also check the mjpeg-howto for
more information about interlacing problems. 
.PP

.SH "OPTION LETTERS CONTROLLING VIDEO PARAMETERS"
.PP
.BR -n|--video-norm\ n | p | s
Force the input stream to be treated as NTSC|PAL|SECAM regardless of
what the stream header might suggest.  Basically this just sets the
defaults for a bunch of other options.
.PP
.BR -F|--frame-rate \ num
Set the frame-rate of the output-stream.  Currently only the standard
MPEG rates are supported.  Eventually more-or-less arbitrary rates
will be possible.
.br
 0 - illegal
.br
 1 - 24000.0/1001.0 (NTSC 3:2 pulldown converted FILM)
.br
 2 - 24.0 (NATIVE FILM)
.br
 3 - 25.0 (PAL/SECAM VIDEO / converted FILM)
.br
 4 - 30000.0/1001.0 (NTSC VIDEO)
.br
 5 - 30.0
.br
 6 - 50.0 (PAL FIELD RATE)
.br
 7 - 60000.0/1001.0 (NTSC FIELD RATE)
.br
 8 - 60.0
.br
.PP
.BR -a|--aspect \ num
Set the playback aspect ratio code of the encoded video.
.br
 1 - 1  - 1:1 display
.br
 2 - 2  - 4:3 display
.br
 3 - 3  - 16:9 display
.br
 4 - 4  - 2.21:1 display
.IP
For MPEG-2 the specified aspect ratios are used directly. For MPEG-1
mpeg2enc infers the MPEG-1 pixel aspect code from the video norm
specified and the specified playback aspect ratio.

.PP
.BR -p|--3-2-pulldown
.PP
Setting -p only makes sense for 24frame/sec Movie source material.  It sets
flags in the output stream that tell the decoder to play the movie as
NTSC 60field/sec video using "3:2 pulldown".  This is vastly more
efficient than encoding as 60field/sec video.  The classic application
is to transcode a PAL-encoded movie (24fps played too fast at 25 fps!)
into NTSC (see the -f flag).

.SH "OPTION LETTERS FOR CONTROLLING COMPRESSION AND SPEED"

.PP
.BR -M|--multithread " num_cpu "
.PP
MPEG encoding is a task that can be split over a small number of CPU's
quite efficiently.  Mpeg2enc can be internally set to split major
processing tasks between a number of concurrent threads.   This flag
adjusts the multi-threading to the optimum to utilise the specified
number of CPU's.
.PP
It should be noted that even with 1 CPU present \fIsome\fR
multi-threading is performed: frame input takes place in parallel with
encoding.  This allows good performance to be achieved when when a
seperate machine is being used for pre-processing (decoding from
MJPEG, scaling, denoising etc) with the final result pipe to mpeg2enc
(e.g. using rsh or ssh).
.PP
Setting -M 0 disables all multithreading.  This is sometimes useful
for debugging or to achieve maximum CPU efficiency on a shared
machine. Setting -M 3 on a dual-CPU machine will produce slightly
faster results than -M 2 at the price of slightly less CPU efficiency.
This is useful if nothing else needs to be done on the encoding
machine.  In practice there is little point setting -M greater than 4
even if the CPU's are available due to the fairly coarse-grained
parallelism used.

.PP
.BR -q|--quantisation\ 1 .. 31
.PP
Minimum quantisation of the output stream.  Quantisation controls the
precision with which image information is encoded.  The lower the
number the higher the quality but the greater the required data-rate.
For VCD resolution anything below 8 or so produces pretty good quality
video.  For SVCD the equivalent level is around 10. If this option is
set a 
.I variable bit rate 
stream is produced.  This is more efficient
overall but variable bit-rate MPEG-1 cannot be played by many hardware
decoders and/or DVD/(S)VCD drives.  If you intend to use a software
decoder you'd be insane not to use variable bit-rate.

If this option is set without a maximum bit-rate being specified then
quantisation is fixed at the specified value.
.PP
.BR -I|--interlace-mode\ 0 | 1 | 2
.PP
This sets the sequences picture structure and block encoding type for
MPEG-2 streams.  Setting 0 encodes frame-by-frame with support for
interlaced video turned off.  This is the most efficient option for
encoding material that is not interlaced (e.g. movies in PAL 25
frame/sec or NTSC 24 frames/sec in 3:2 pulldown format).  However, it
produces rotten results for interlaced video material.  For such
material use -I 1 which encodes frame-by-frame with interlace-adapted
motion compensation and block encoding.  Alternatively, for highly
textured interlaced material with lots of motion you may with to try
-I 2 which switches to field-by-field encoding.  This is generally
less efficient than frame-by-frame encoding but will produce more
accurate results.   
.IP
Note that setting -I 1 for non-interlaced material will not do any
harm but the encoder will waste a lot of time on calculations that
aren't needed.  


.PP
.BR -g|--min-gop-size " num "
.PP
.BR -G|--max-gop-size " num "
.PP
These flags set the minimum and maximum group-of-picture (GOP) size
for the output MPEG stream.  By default both are set to 12 to suit VCD
encoding.  If the two values are not identical mpeg2enc applies a
simple scene-change detection procedure to try to select GOP sizes
that ensure big changes of image coincide with the fully-encoded
I-frame starting a new GOP.  This can help prevent transient
"blockiness".  For VCD/SVCD/DVD the largest GOP size is 15 for PAL or 18 for
NTSC.  Reasonable minimum GOP sizes are 6 or 9.  A larger GOP size can
help reduce the bit-rate required for a given quality.  However, this
really only applies to high-quality source material with little noise
(e.g. digital video).  For broadcast material there is little point
setting GOP size much beyond 21 or 24.  Even with good source material
diminishing returns set in quite rapidly.

Note: Mpeg2enc is currently hard-wired to produce 2 B frames between
each I/P frame unless the GOP size forces less.  This is reasonable
for medium to high bit-rates (>= 1Mbps) but probably sub-optimal for
low-bit-rate encoding.
.PP
.BR -c|--closed-GOPs
.PP
Setting this flag causes the encoder to generate only "closed" GOPs
(Groups of Pictures) that can be decoded without reference to their
predecessor.  This is useful for streams that are supposed to be used
in multi-angle DVD's and applications where more easily edittable MPEG
is required.
.PP
.BR -P|--force-b-b-p
.PP
This flag forces the GOP size selection to choose sizes 
that ensure 2 B frames appear between adjacent I/P frames.
Several common MPEG-1 decoders can't handle streams where less than
2 B-frames appear between I/P frames.
.PP
.BR -Q|--quantisation-reduction\ 0.0 .. 5.0 
.PP
This flag sets the amount quantisation is reduced for
blocks containing unusually large amounts of sharp image detail.
Setting this value 0.0 produces the most efficient use of bits but may
cause visible/artefacting around detailed sections.  A larger value
may help suppress artefacts, however, on noisy source material this may cause
a "swimming" effect on textured backgrounds as the noise cause blocks to
be boosted at random.  The default is 0.0 (off).


.PP
.BR -r|--motion-search-radius \ num
.PP
This flag sets the motion estimation search radius.  For most
purposes the default (16) should be just fine.  For high-resolution
MPEG-2 and active scenes it may be worth bumping it up.  However, this
will make encoding significantly slower.  There is little point
reducing the radius.  Speed gains are not huge and the impact on quality
can be marked.
.PP
.BR -4|--reduction-4x4 " 1 .. 4 "
.PP
.BR -2|--reduction-2x2 " 1 .. 4 "
.PP
These options control how radical the encoder is in throwing away
apparently poor candidate estimates during motion estimation.  A
setting of 1 means very few blocks are discarded early which makes for
slow encoding but quality as good as it gets. A setting of 4 makes for
fast encoding but can impact quality.  The -4 flag controls discarding
during the initial 4*4 sub-sampled search stage, the -2 flag controls
discarding during the secondary 2*2 sub-sampled stage.
.IP
These flags are useful as the speed quality trade-off is markedly
different depending on which CPU you have.  On modern machines the
impact on speed is around a factor 2 on older machines a factor 3.
The impact on quality is around 10% quantisation (0.2 of a bit of
precision in encoding textures).  For most purposes the default
settings will be fine.  However on P-III Katmai etc -4 2 -2 1 gives a
good near-optimum quality setting with reasonably speed.
.PP
.B  -N|--reduce-HF num
.PP
Setting this flag adjusts the way texture detail is quantised to
reduce the precision with which of high-frequency information
encoded. This is very useful for
.I mildy
noisy sources.  If you have really noisy material the filtering tools
available in mjpegtools are a much better bet.  The specified number
must be in the range 0.0 to 2.0 gives the maxium quantisation boost.
A useful number to use would be 1.5 or 1.0.
.PP
.B -h|--keep-hf
.PP
Setting this flag makes the encoder encode as much high-frequency information
as possible.   This is a good setting for maximising quality at VCD
resolution with good quality low-noise source material.  It can also help
with "swimmy" material if you can spare the bit-rate!

.SH "OPTION LETTERS FOR CHUNKING THE OUTPUT STREAM"
.PP
.BR -S|--sequence-length \ num
.PP
This flag allows the target size of individual sequences in the final
multiplexed stream to be set in MBytes. If set  mpeg2enc keeps track
of how large the eventual stream is getting and inserts a sequence
split (actually: sequence end / sequence start) into the output stream
each time it reaches the specified limit.  The multiplexer \fBmplex\fP(1) can
recognise these splits and start a new multiplexed output file each time
it encounters one.   In this way it is easy to automatically ensure
each component sequence file can be burnt onto a CD-R and still be
played as a stand-alone MPEG sequence.   For the SVCD and VCD profiles
the default target sequence length is 700M bytes. For other profiles the
default is that sequence length is unlimited.
.PP
.BR -B|-nonvideo-bitrate \ num
.PP
Since mpeg2enc can't read minds it cannot know in advance what other
material will be multiplexed with the output video stream.  Thus to
get its calculations of where to insert split point right it needs to be
told the combined data-rate of the other material that is eventually to
be multiplexed with the video.
This flag allows this rate to be specified in K bits/sec.

A good rule of thumb is to use the total rate of all the other streams
plus 1% of the total rate including video.

.SH "SSE, 3D-Now!, MMX"
mpeg2enc makes extensive use of these SIMD instruction set extension
on x86 family CPU's.  The routines used are determined dynamically at
run-time.  It should be noted that using SSE requires operating system
support.  Old 2.2.x Linux kernels (unless patched ones like RedHat) do
not have this and so SSE, although physically present, won't be activated.
.SH "BUGS"
There should be an option to force GOP sizes that permit 2 B frames
between I/P frames.  Some decoders (even software)  can't handle the case
where I/P frames come back to back or with only 1 B frame between them.

There really should be some kind of dynamic noise-reduction algorithm
someplace in the mpegtools tool chain.

There needs to be a facility for writing dummy user-data fields so
that the multiplexer/imager can insert forward/backward pointers when
muxing/imaging an SVCD.

Is there some kind soul out there with source-code for a good SSE
(not MMX) DCT and iDCT?
.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Andrew Stevens.
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

For more info, see our website at
  \fIhttp://mjpeg.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mplex "(1), " mp2enc "(1), " lavrec "(1), " lavplay "(1), "
.BR lav2yuv "(1), " lav2wav "(1), " yuvscaler "(1), " yuvdenoise "(1)," mjpegtools "(1)"
