.TH "xlav" "1" "2 June 2001" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"

.SH NAME
xlav \- Video editting and interactive playback front-end to \fBlavplay\fP(1)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xlav
.RI [ options ] \ filename \ ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxlav\fP acts as a front-end to the \fBlavplay\fP(1) tool to allow
interactive editting or browsing/playback of a video stream.  All the
actual work of playback and editting is done by the underlying
\fBlavplay\fP with command line options being passed through also.
xlav therefore accepts precisely the same flags and file formats as
lavplay, the only difference is that a window offering VCR-style
interactive controls and edit functions is opened.  Thus the video
sequence to be editting / played may comprise any number and mixture
of AVI, Quicktime, and movtar MJPEG video files or edit list files
pointing to such files.  The only constraint is that the format of
video contained in all files must be identical.

Xlav's primary purpose is to support non-destructive editting of video
by creating edit list files.  Editting operations leave the specified
video files intact. Save operations generate an \fIedit list\fP file
specifying the sequence and source of frames in the editted version
rather than an actual editted file. Provided the original source files
are unmodified this edit list can then be used as a proxy for the
editted sequence.  All \fBmjpegtools\fP(1) will accept an edit list in
any context where an actual video file or sequence of files would be
acceptable.  For example: to play a favourite TV show without
advertisements it would be first recorded using \fBlavrec\fP(1) (or
perhaps a software MJPEG encoder).  The Ads would then be editted out
using xlav and the result record as an editlist.  The Ad-less sequence
could then be played back at some later stage by running lavplay (or,
of course, xlav) with edit list file as input argument. Alternatively,
the Ad-less show could be compressed to MPEG video by running \fBlav2yuv\fP(1)
on the edit list and piping the resulting decompressed stream
through \fBmpeg2enc\fP(1).

It is also possible to create a new video file containing a
stand-alone copy of the editted sequence by applying the
\fBlavtrans\fP(1) utility to the edit list.

.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlavplay\fP(1).

.SH BUGS
Editlists are really record absolute pathnames.  This more
or less forces manual editting of the pathnames in them if it is desired
to move editlists and source video files.

xlav really is rather spartan and uses the now obsolescent "xforms"
library.  Superior replacements are currently under development.

.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Andrew Stevens.
.br
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.TP
For more info, see our website at
.I http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR lavrec (1),
.BR lavplay (1),
.BR lavtrans (1)
