.\" 
.TH "y4mcolorbars" "1" "13 November 2001" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"
.SH "NAME"
y4mcolorbars \- Create a YUV4MPEG2 stream containing a colorbar test pattern

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B y4mcolorbars
.RI [ options ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBy4mcolorbars\fP creates a YUV4MPEG2 stream consisting entirely of frames
containing a colorbar test pattern.  This stream is
ready for further processing by the \fBmpeg2enc\fP(1) 
MPEG encoder and image processing filters like
\fByuvscaler\fP(1).

Output is to stdout to facilitate piping to other MJPEG tools.

.SH "OPTIONS"
\fBy4mcolorbars\fP accepts the following options:

.TP 5
.BI \-n " num"
Output a total of 'num' output frames.
(default: 1)
.TP 5
.BI \-F " n:d"
Set framerate encoded in output stream, as an exact integer ratio.
(default:  30000:1001)  Common rates are:
 24000:1001 - NTSC 3:2 pulldown converted film
       24:1 - native film
       25:1 - PAL/SECAM
 30000:1001 - NTSC video
       50:1 - PAL field rate
 60000:1001 - NTSC field rate
.TP 5
.BI \-W " w"
Set frame width. (default: 720)
.TP 5
.BI \-H " h"
Set frame height. (default: 480)
.TP 5
.BI \-A " n:d"
Set pixel aspect ratio encoded in output stream, as an exact integer ratio.
(default:  10:11)  Common ratios are:
     1:1  - square pixels (computer graphics)
    10:11 - CCIR-601 NTSC
    59:54 - CCIR-601 PAL
.TP 5
.BI \-I " x"
Set interlacing mode, used to interpret the PPM image(s), and also encoded
in output stream.  (default:  'p')
 p - progressive, non-interlaced
 t - top/upper-field-first interlaced
 b - bottom/lower-field-first interlaced
.TP 5
.BI \-S " mode"
Set chroma subsampling mode.  (default:  420_jpeg)
  420_jpeg - 4:2:0 JPEG/MPEG-1, interstitial cositing 
 420_mpeg2 - 4:2:0 MPEG-2, horizontal cositing

Changing the subsampling mode from the default won't necessarily
make anything better.  This option is just for experimenting.
.TP 5
.BI \-v " [0,1,2]"
Set verbosity level.  
 0 = warnings and errors only.
 1 = add informative messages, too.
 2 = add chatty debugging message, too.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.hw y4mcolorbars yuvplay tgatoppm
To create and display 200 frames of colorbars corresponding to a 
top-field-first interlaced 4:3 NTSC source:

.RS 5
y4mcolorbars -n 200 -It | yuvplay
.RE

To create and display 200 frames of colorbars corresponding to a 
bottom-field-first interlaced 4:3 PAL source:

.RS 5
y4mcolorbars -n 200 -H 576 -F 25:1 -A 59:54 -Ib | yuvplay
.RE

.SH "AUTHOR"
This man page was written by Matt Marjanovic.
.br 
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.TP 
For more info, see our website at
.I http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR mpeg2enc (1),
.BR yuvscaler (1),
.BR yuv2lav (1),
.BR yuvplay (1)
