.TH "yuvkineco" "1" "10 December 2001" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"

.SH NAME
yuvkineco \- revert 2\-3 pulldown movie

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B yuvkineco
.RB [ \-S
.IR MIN ]
.RB [ \-F
.IR FPSCODE ]
.RB [ \-C
.IR PATH ]
.br
.B yuvkineco
.RB [ \-S
.IR MIN ]
.RB [ \-F
.IR FPSCODE ]
.RB \-[ON]
.IR PATH

.SH DESCRIPTION
.br
\fByuvkineco\fP revert to original non\-interlaced frames, from NTSC video which was
film sourced and 2\-3 pulled down.
Input fps code must be 4(29.97fps), output fps code can be selected
from 1(23.97fps) to 4(29.97fps). If 2, 3 or 4 selected, duplicated 
frames remain but their are also reverted to non\-interlaced.
If input was non\-interlaced, only do remove duplicated frames.
Interlaced frame detection can fail in conditions like:
    Pull down cycle changed (video editing).
    Low quality pull down.
    Motionless scene.
.br
If \-C PATH was specified, \fByuvkineco\fP output 2\-3 pull down
cycle list to the file.  You can edit this file by hand and feed it
to \fByuvkineco\fP with \-O or \-N option to correct mistake of 1st \fByuvkineco\fP.
Try \-C and see cycle list.
  EXAMPLE #1: for 24p movie / automatically
    lav2yuv 60i.eli | \\
    yuvkineco \-F 1 | yuv2lav \-f a \-I 0 \-o 24p.avi
  EXAMPLE #2: for 30p/24p mix / automatically
    lav2yuv 60i.eli | \\
    yuvkineco \-F 4 | yuv2lav \-f a \-I 0 \-o 30p.avi
  EXAMPLE #3: for 24p movie / check and repair
    lav2yuv 60i.eli | \\
    yuvkineco \-F 1 \-C 60i.23c | \\
    yuv2lav \-f a \-I 1 \-o take1.avi
    glav \-F take1.avi # check and edit 60i.23c
    lav2yuv take1.avi | \\
    yuvkineco \-F 1 \-N 60i.23c | \\
    yuv2lav \-f a \-I 0 \-o take2.avi
  EXAMPLE #4: for 24p movie / check and retry
    lav2yuv 60i.eli | \\
    yuvkineco \-F 1 \-C 60i.23c | \\
    yuv2lav \-f a \-I 0 \-o take1.avi
    glav \-F take1.avi # check and edit 60i.23c
    lav2yuv 60i.eli | \\
    yuvkineco \-F 1 \-O 60i.23c | \\
    yuv2lav \-f a \-I 0 \-o take2.avi

.SH OPTIONS
\fByuvkineco\fP accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.BI \-F \ FPSCODE
Set output fps code (default: same as input).
.TP 8
.BI \-C \ PATH
Specify 2-3 pull down cycle list file name to write.
.TP 8
.BI \-O \ PATH
Specify cycle list name to read with old yuv stream to retry.
.TP 8
.BI \-N \ PATH
Specify cycle list name to read with new yuv stream to repair.
.TP 8
.BI \-S \ MIN
Use \fByuvycsnoise\fP(1) as preprocessor and specify minimum threshold.
.TP 8
.BI \-u
Set interlace information in header of output to unknown
(default: non\-interlaced).

.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Kawamata/Hitoshi.
.br
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.TP
For more info, see our website at
.I http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR yuvycsnoise (1).
