.TH "yuvmedianfilter" "1" "24 February 2003" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"

.SH "NAME"
yuvmedianfilter \- A filter for yuv images produced by the mjpeg tools

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B yuvmedianfilter
.RB [ \-r
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-R
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-T
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-v
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-h ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fByuvmedianfilter\fP is designed to enhance/filter images.  It takes the input from STDIN and writes output to STDOUT.  
.br
This filter looks around the current point for a radius and averages the values that fall inside a threshold.
So the image is softened and the edges become more sharp. If the input 
material is noisy (it is always noisy but you do not always see it) the 
output images are improved and
the encoder spends less bandwidth encoding noise.
The more sophisticated version of image filtering is yuvdenoise. But you can use both programs in the encoding procces.
It cannot procces a recorded file and write the improved version to another file. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
\fByuvdenoise\fP accepts the following options:

.TP 5
.BI \-r " num"
Radius for luma median (default: 2 pixels)
.TP 5
.BI \-R " num"
Radius for chroma median (default: 2 pixels)
.TP 5
.BI \-t " num"
Trigger threshold for luma (default: 2 [0=disable])
.TP 5
.BI \-T " num"
Trigger threshold for chroma (default: 2 [0=disable])
.TP 5
.BI \-v " num"
Verbosity level (0, 1 or 2)
.TP 5
.BI \-h 
Print out a help message

.SH BUGS
It is slow.  Using a radius greater than the default of 2 is painfully slow.

.SH "AUTHOR"
This man page was written by Bernhard Praschinger.
.br
The yuvmedianfilter programm was written by Mike Bernson, and adapted to the yuv4mpeg2 stream header format by Steven M. Schultz.

.br
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.TP
For more info, see our website at
.I http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR jpeg2yuv (1),
.BR lav2yuv (1),
.BR mpeg2enc (1),
.BR ppmtoy4m (1),
.BR yuv2lav (1),
.BR yuvdenoise (1),
.BR yuvscaler (1)
