.TH "yuvplay" "1" "2 June 2001" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"

.SH NAME
yuvplay \- Play YUV data using SDL

.SH SYNOPSIS
lavpipe/lav2yuv [options] [file(s)] |
.B yuvplay
.RB [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fByuvplay\fP can be used to playback YUV data which is provided to
the stdin, mostly through piping this data from the stdout of
\fBlavpipe\fP(1), \fBlav2yuv\fP(1), \fBmpeg2dec\fP(1) or a similar
program into the stdin of yuvplay.  It should be noted that for pure
playback lavplay should be a superior option. Yuvplay is intended
primarily as a debugging or diagnostic utility when setting up image
processing / encoding pipelines.  

.SH OPTIONS
\fByuvplay\fP accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.BI \-s \ NxN
The size of the SDL window. By default, it takes the size of the video,
but through software YUV scaling, you can specify any size you want.
NxN is the width x height of the scaled window.

.TP 8
.BI \-f " num"
Override the framerate of the input YUV stream (header)

.TP 8
.BI \-c
By default, yuvplay will try to play at the framerate of the input movie.
With this option, yuvplay will just play all the frames at the rate in
which they're provided through the stdin.

.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Ronald Bultje.
.br
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.TP
For more info, see our website at
.I http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR lavpipe (1),
.BR lav2yuv (1)
.BR lavplay (1)
