.TH "yuvycsnoise" "1" "10 December 2001" "MJPEG Linux Square" "MJPEG tools manual"

.SH NAME
yuvycsnoise \- Noise filter specialized for NTSC Y/C separation noise

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yuvycsnoise
.RB [ \-t ]
.RB [ \-m
{tbic} ]
.RB [ \-S
.IR MIN ]
.RB [ \-T
.IR ERRT[,MAXT] ]
.RB [ \-B
.IR ERRB[,MAXB] ]
.RB [ \-I
.IR ERRI[,MAXI] ]
.RB [ \-C
.IR ERRC[,MAXC] ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
If video capture hardware has only a poor Y/C separator,
at vertical stripe (especialy red/blue), noises appear
which seem checker flag and bright/dark invert per 1 frame.
\fByuvycsnoise\fP reduces noises of this type.

.SH OPTIONS
\fByuvycsnoise\fP accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.BI \-t
test. Instead of noise reduction, noises will be marked as black pixel.
.TP 8
.BI \-m \ METHOD
(default: tbic).
.br
Select method.
METHOD is string in which each charactor mean method.
 t: 'triframe' method of luma noise reduction.
 b: 'biframe' method of luma noise reduction.
 i: 'infield' method of luma noise reduction.
 c: chroma noise reduction. use 3 frames as 'triframe'.
.TP 8
.BI \-S \ MIN
(default: 4).
.br
Set minimum threshold of luma/chroma difference
which is treated as noise.
.TP 8
.BI \-T \ ERRT[,MAXT]
(default: 32,255).
.TP 8
.BI \-B \ ERRB[,MAXB]
(default: 32,255).
.TP 8
.BI \-I \ ERRI[,MAXI]
(default: 16,255).
.TP 8
.BI \-C \ ERRC[,MAXC]
(default: 12,255).
.br
Set threshold of luma/chroma difference of each methods.
ERRx is maximum error of luma/chroma of pixels arround
target pixel, which should be same if target contain noise.
MAXx is maximum threshold of luma/chroma difference of
target pixel from luma/chroma after noise reduced.

.SH AUTHOR
This man page was written by Kawamata/Hitoshi.
.br
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for the MJPEG\-tools is:
  \fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

.TP
For more info, see our website at
.I http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mjpegtools (1)
