.TH "studio" "1" "V 0.1.5-dev" "Ronald Bultje" "description"
.SH NAME
Linux Video Studio - a MJPEG-tools GUI
.SH SYNOPSIS
studio [\-h] [\-v] [\-p num] [\-t] [\-d] [\-c name]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBLinux Video Studio\fP is a small\-'n-simple GUI for the MJPEG\-tools
(http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/). The MJPEG\-tools can be used to record
video from a zoran\-based capture card (DC10+, Buz, LML33), playback
video to the same card and encode video to MPEG.
Linux Video Studio tries to extend this with simple editing functions,
like deleting frames, adding frames from new videos, moving frames,
scene detection etc. All this hoping to be useful.

.SH OPTIONS
\fBLinux Video Studio\fP ('studio') accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B  \-h
Prints a help/usage message and quits
.TP 8
.B \-v
Prints version information and quits
.TP 8
.B \-p num
Gives you the possibility to select a Video4Linux Xvideo port to be used.
By default (if you omit this option or if you give 0 as an argument),
Linux Video Studio will try to select one automatically. You can select
another one with this option or in the Options window.
.TP 8
.B \-t
Prints Video4Linux Xvideo ports information and quits.
.TP 8
.B \-d
Enables verbose/debugging mode.
.TP 8
.B \-c name
The name (default: 'studio') is used to safe the configuration. By using
multiple names, you can use multiple configurations all for one user. For
example, if you have both a Buz and a DC10+, you could use '\-c buz' for
the Buz and '\-c dc10' for the DC10+ card so that the two configurations
will both be saved separately.

.SH BUGS
Do we contain bugs? Yes, very likely. We just don't know which bugs
yet, so that's for the user (you) to find out! If you've found bugs,
please mail a bug report to the developers (see \fBCONTACTING\fP).
Before sending bug reports saying nothing more than "it won't work",
please try running in a terminal window with the -d (debug) option
and attach the output to the bug report. Also, if it gives a segfault, 
please run the core-file through gdb or run studio within gdb and attach 
the output of gdb too, so that we know where it crashed.

.SH CONTACTING
If you have questions, remarks, problems or you just want to contact
the developers, the main mailing list for Linux Video Studio is:
\fImjpeg\-users@lists.sourceforge.net\fP

You may also want to reach the developers individually:
  Ronald Bultje        <\fIrbultje@ronald.bitfreak.net\fP>
  Bernhard Praschinger <\fIpraschinger@netaway.at\fP>

Also see our homepage at \fIhttp://ronald.bitfreak.net/\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stv(1),
.BR mjpegtools (1),
.BR lav2yuv (1),
.BR lav2wav (1),
.BR lavplay (1),
.BR lavrec (1),
.BR lavtrans (1),
.BR mp2enc (1),
.BR mpeg2enc (1),
.BR yuvscaler (1)